feat: describe usage invoices (#1748)
ory/docs: docs/console/usage-billing.mdx

---
id: usage-billing
title: Usage-based billing
sidebar_label: Usage-based billing
slug: usage-billing
---

# Usage-based billing

:::info

This feature is in preview. While we are rolling out usage-based billing, we will not collect payment for overusage. Payment
collection will start XX.XX.2024.

Please report any issues to support@ory.sh or contact us in the [Ory Community](https://slack.ory.sh/).

:::

## Overview

> Usage-based invoices is a new feature in the Ory Console that you to understand your usage of Ory Cloud services, the usage that
> is included in your plan, and the overuse. Usage-based invoices are generated on a monthly basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usage-based invoices are a new feature in the Ory Console that allows you to understand your usage of Ory Network services, the usage that
is included in your plan, and the overuse. Usage-based invoices are generated every month.
```

> is included in your plan, and the overuse. Usage-based invoices are generated on a monthly basis.

Reviewer 2: Maybe also remove the "new", as it's not going to be new in a couple of months, but we're probably not going to remove it here.

> Usage-based invoices are generated every month.

Are they really? I thought we still generate the month-to-date invoice with partial data?

Author: Yes, but the basis for the calculation is the current usage period, which is a month.

Author: I reworded, PTAL :)

## Enabling Usage-based Invoices

Displaying the usage-based invoices is guarded by a feature toggle and is disabled by default. To enable it, navigate to the

> [preview features page](https://console.ory.sh/projects/current/features) and enable the `Show invoices` feature. The Ory Console

Reviewer 2: TODO, once my rework is merged, it's https://console.ory.sh/settings/advanced and the page won't reload anymore.

Author: done!

> Displaying the usage-based invoices is guarded by a feature toggle and is disabled by default. To enable it, navigate to the
> [preview features page](https://console.ory.sh/projects/current/features) and enable the `Show invoices` feature. The Ory Console
> should reload itself and you should now see the usage-based invoices sidebar entry in the workspace settings page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Displaying the usage-based invoices is controlled by a feature toggle and is disabled by default. To enable it, navigate to the
[preview features page](https://console.ory.sh/projects/current/features) and enable the `Show invoices` feature. The Ory Console
should reload itself and you should now see the usage-based invoices sidebar entry in the workspace settings page.
```

### Ory Console UI

> After enabling the feature toggle, navigate to the workspace usage and billing page either through the workspace menu on the top
> left, or by navigating to the workspace settings page and then selecting `Usage and billing` from the sidebar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After enabling the feature toggle, navigate to the workspace usage and billing page either through the workspace menu on the top
left, or by navigating to the workspace settings page and then selecting **Usage and billing** from the sidebar.
```

> Usage invoices are only available for workspaces with a subscription. The usage will always be invoiced monthly, even if the plan

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usage invoices are only available for workspaces that have an active subscription plan. The usage will always be invoiced monthly, even if the plan
```

Author: Technically, the subscription does not need to be active, so that you can also view older invoices. I'll reword this.

is paid annually. For the current billing period, the usage is generated as a preview and refreshed at most every six hours. The
final invoice is generated at the end of the billing period.

Depending on the plan, the service usage is comprised of at least three components: the average daily active users (ADAU), the
number of machine-to-machine (M2M) tokens issued, and the number of permission checks. Usage credits will be applied to the total

> service usage, but unused credits will not be carried over to the next billing period.

Reviewer 2: Make it a list?

```mdx-code-block
import BrowserWindow from "@site/src/theme/BrowserWindow"

<BrowserWindow url="https://console.ory.sh/workspaces/current/settings/billing">

![Usage-based Invoices](./_static/usage-billing-screenshot.png)

</BrowserWindow>
```

### Invoices for the current billing period

> The total usage for the current billing period can still change. While M2M token issuance and permission checks are billed per
> usage, the ADAU usage is calculated as the average of the last 30 days. This means that the ADAU usage for the current billing
> period can still change until the end of the billing period.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The invoice for the current billing period is a preview of the costs. While M2M token issuance and permission checks are billed per
usage (accumulative), the ADAU usage is calculated as the average of the last 30 days. This means that the ADAU usage for the current billing
period can increase or decrease until the end of the billing period.
```

---
id: usage-billing
title: Usage-based billing
sidebar_label: Usage-based billing
slug: usage-billing
---

:::info

This feature is in preview. While we are rolling out usage-based billing, we will not collect payment for overusage. Payment
collection will be rolled out gradually in Q3 2024.

Please report any issues to support@ory.sh or contact us in the [Ory Community](https://slack.ory.sh/).

:::

## Overview

Usage-based invoices are a feature in the Ory Console that allows you to understand your usage of Ory Network services, the usage
that is included in your plan, and the overuse. Usage-based invoices are generated every month. For the current billing period, a
draft invoice is generated every six hours.

Usage-based invoices only apply to workspaces and projects contained therein, but not to legacy plans that have individual

> subscriptions.

Reviewer 2: Do we have docs for workspaces, and what constitutes a legacy plan already? I imagine this could be very confusing for some people. If so, would be great to link here, otherwise we should write some soon.

It's not in scope for this PR if we don't, though.

## Enable Usage-based Invoices

Displaying the usage-based invoices is controlled by a feature toggle and is disabled by default. To enable it, navigate to the

> [advanced settings page](https://console.ory.sh/settings/advanced) and enable the `Show invoices` feature. You should now see the

Reviewer: Under the link the FT is called "Workspace invoice overview"

> [advanced settings page](https://console.ory.sh/settings/advanced) and enable the `Workspace invoice overview` feature. You should

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[advanced settings page](https://console.ory.sh/settings/advanced) and enable the **Workspace invoice overview** feature. You should
```

---
id: usage-billing
title: Usage-based billing
sidebar_label: Usage-based billing
slug: usage-billing
---

> # Usage-based billing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

please leave out h1, docusaurus uses "title" for that

:::info

This feature is in preview. While we are rolling out usage-based billing, we will not collect payment for overusage. Payment
collection will start XX.XX.2024.

Please report any issues to support@ory.sh or contact us in the [Ory Community](https://slack.ory.sh/).

:::

## Overview

Usage-based invoices are a feature in the Ory Console that allows you to understand your usage of Ory Network services, the usage
that is included in your plan, and the overuse. Usage-based invoices are generated every month. For the current billing period, a
draft invoice is generated every six hours.

Usage-based invoices only apply to workspaces and projects contained therein, but not to legacy plans that have individual
subscriptions.

> ## Enabling Usage-based Invoices

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Enable Usage-based Invoices
```
